Comment: seperate each line into multiple lines for more readability (not a critque of the actual game).

Notice before game creation for legal reasons: Real students and teachers should not be represented in this game.

In my game, users will play as students or teachers at Harvard Westlake School. 
The objective of the students is to evacuate the school and leave early, while the teachers try to keep them in the school. 
Matches will have 10-20 players, and will last around 10-20 minutes. 
There should be far fewer teachers than students, with around a 1:5 teacher to student ratio. 
Comment: There could be different size lobbies- 5 students, 1 teacher, 10 students, 2 teachers, 15 students, 3 teachers, 20 students, 4 teachers.
Students can evacuate the school in limitless ways, but solutions to escape the school should need to be pretty creative to work. 
However, the teachers do not want the students to leave. 
They try to find students schemes (so schemes should take a while and should be easy to spot) and send students to the office if they get caught. 
If a teacher is abusing their tools however, they too will get sent to the office. 
This game should be often violent, dramatized, and extremified far beyond what is normally expected for a game.
Comment: should probably not be that violent, especially student on teacher violence, so Harvard-Westlake does not get too mad. 

Items:
Students and teachers should be able to collect items in an inventory throughout the game. 
This can include permitted items, like computers or school supplies, or forbidden items, like knives, paint, explosives, or anything else they can get their hands on. 
Comment: the use of knives and explosives is potentially problematic. Instead, forbidden items could be phones, paint, cars, rocks, or other things.
Teachers try to prevent students from accessing prohibited items during the game, and can confiscate items they find.  
Items should also be able to be altered in rooms like the science room, robotics room, or the art rooms to create new prohibited items.
An example of this is turning a ruler or pencil into a knife, or taking chemistry items and turn it into different explosives or chemicals.

Map:
Should be a moderately accurately 2d model of the HW upper school. 
Interactives can be found across the entire map, including school supplies, food, power terminals, gas lines, doors, school vehicles, lights, whiteboards, and so much more. 
Having as many interactions with the map is essential to make this game engaging.
Comment: it is somewhat unclear how interactives act. For example, food could be necessary because the students could die of hunger, power can be used to charge electronics, gas can be used to blow up certain areas, etc.
Things that don't even aid in gameplay should be interactive, such as the whiteboards and doors as mentioned previously. 
Some aspects of the game should also be randomly generated. 
For instance, the items within a teachers desk should change between games.
Comment: the interactives could be the RNG elements, as food or supplies can spawn randomly every game.
People should be able to go into buildings, but not see into buildings while outside the building.
Comment: the interactive element of the game is a great idea that would make the game very captivating.

Students:
Students have assignments that they need to complete, which is justification for them to take certain supplies out of the room. 
Completing assignments may allow them to cash in school credit for more interesting supplies, like getting access to the back science hallway. 
However their main objective is to evacuate the school. 
They win if they can cause a disaster large enough at the school, which could include destroying a building, setting a fire to two or more buildings, getting a water main break, shorting the power to the entire school, etc. 
There should be a lot of opportunities to destroy the school so teachers can't just camp the places on the map where destroying the school happens. 
Student health should be very low so any mistake may lead to death.
Comment: "Low health" could be elaborated on. This could mean that the teacher seeing the student results in death, or the student being hit by a teacher results in death.

Teachers:
Teachers are not able to destroy the school, and are unable to posses forbidden items. 
However, they have several advantages on the student. They should move slightly faster than students, and get to order students to the office. 
However, students should be able to slow them down. Examples may include: barricading a classroom, chemicals, leaving food on the floor, glue, stables, etc. 
Teachers should have significantly more health than students (4x).
Comment: are teachers AI or player-controlled? They should probably be player controlled to increase strategy and complexity of the game (if that was not already the plan).

The Office:
Students and teachers who die respawn in the office. Additionally people sent to the office will end up here. 
People in the office need to wait 30 seconds before leaving, where they have to fill out a detention slip 
(if they dont fill it out very well it doesn't matter, this just keeps them engaged during the 30 second wait).

User Interface:
All users, students and teachers, can move around using WASD on a 2d map. 
Interactables, like desks, doors, or any other objects can be interacted with using F. 
There also should be an inventory players get, where they can hold items in their backpack. 
They have space to hold any item, that they can then use. There also should be a healthbar, as user's actions will remove health from other players. 

Aesthetics:
This game will be a 2d pixelated game, with bland colors, but interactions with the map will be incredibly bright and colorful. 
In this way the users are motivated to interact more from the map.
Teachers and students should also stand out from the background to make them easy to see. 

Goal: Give people a chance to do the things they always wanted to do (blowing up the school) with none of the consequence. 
It also will be a fun competitive multiplayer game where people have to be sneaky, creative, and dramatic to win the game.
Target Audience: Harvard Westlake Students or recent Alumni. Or just students in general.